# 18W-Robotics-Tips
A collection of notes containing my tips and tricks for the different technologies that I worked with in Professor Devin Balkcom's Lab during winter 2018. This list was compiled after the fact, contains only those salient in my memory and is definitely not comprehensive. If there are any questions about specific bugs or features, please let me know. I can be reached at 401-829-5455 or zacharyjohnsonri@gmail.com. 

# Hololens Development
Perhaps the most difficult part for me was getting the development environment configured. You need several different tools: unity, visual studio, and a physical hololens device. I used Unity 5.6.5.p1 and Visual Studio 2017. Visual Studio 2017 is definitely the version to use. Unity 2017 probably also works as well, as I noticed after the fact that it was suggested on several different websites than the one I used. I recommend Microsoft's Holographic Academy tutorials (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/academy) as a guide to get everything set up. Module 100 was especially helpful. IMPORTANT NOTE: I found the holographic emulator extraordinarily buggy and spent far too much time trying to figure out how to use it. There is a far better way to do it. First, configure your unity environment. Holographic academy has more information about how to do this, but on first pass you need to change the background to be solid color (change from skybox) and then set it to black. You also have to enable Virtual Reality development in player settings and change quality to fastest. You then set up what you want to display in Unity. You can work with simple shapes that are pre-built into Unity. If you want a more complex model, you can make it yourself using Maya or Blender (I didn't try to learn how to do this). You can also download models from the Unity Asset Store, which has thousands of different models to download for free or for purchase. When searching for models, try to look for models that have many bones. It is these bones that allow you to manipulate the model itself into the configurations that you desire. To do this, drag your model into Unity then click onto it in the left-most panel. Click down the arrow chain until you get to the base layer which should have bones. Once you have your desired bone selected that you want to manipulate, go to the top left corner and click on (check me on this if you do it, my memory is a little foggy), the third symbol from left (arrows). You should then be able to click and drag on the sphere that is created around the object and move the bone in different directions. If you want to test to see how things look as you go, you should use Hololens Remoting. Go under the window menu and find the appropriate button (should say in documentation if you can't find it). It will ask you to enter an IP address. To find this, boot up the Hololens and go to the Hololens Remoting Player App. It should display an IP address on the screen. Enter that on the screen and hit play. It should appear but you won't be able to test any interaction. Once you finish creating your scene in Unity, hit build and make sure that windows store is selected as the platform. Follow the Holographic Academy directions and select the correct boxes. When you hit build, you should create a folder called app. Once it builds, go into that folder and select the sln file. That should load in Visual Studio. Change the settings in the top drop downs to Release and x86. Connect the Hololens via USB to the computer. Hit "Start without debugging" and then put on the Hololens. It should release to the device and you are then safe to unplug from the computer and walk around and move. 

Programming for the Hololens can be done in Visual Studio and is done in C#. Warning: because the technology is so new and evolving so quickly, documentation is generally limited and becomes outdated very quickly. If you start a tutorial, make sure you check the date of publication to make sure it is still applicable. I was burned several times by not doing this. Also, the Holographic Toolkit is the best resource available. Use it often. 

# Leap Motion
Documentation in this area is generally pretty good. To get the data from the leap motion, you have to "connect" it to a file that can be written in any text editor and then get the individual frame data. We used joint angles to do much of our calculations as it accounts for different hand sizes and positions. You can get a wide array of data from the device. It is most effective when placed flat on the table towards a solid color ceiling. You can contact me, Robert Livaudais, or Maggie Pizzo if you have more specific questions. 

# Turtlebot Construction and ROS Installation
Follow the instructions in the booklet for assembly. Some Notes:
Some of the steps seemed physically impossible. I skipped several steps if they seemed like they would not affect the structural integrity of the vehicle and it still worked fine. Don't be afraid to do so. The plates should be screwed together tightly and are most effective when they are not loose. Make sure each screw cannot move. The robot works if you hit one of the two small buttons on the board and it moves either straight or in a 180 degree turn. 

For ROS installation, you need a flash drive with Ubuntu. I tried to use the Ubuntu desktop terminal application on a Windows computer. It will technically work, but you will lose several core features and it drastically reduces speed. Installation took an egregiously long time. I found this video (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fAvVjArwdwA) especially helpful. 

I hope this helps! Again, please let me know if there are any questions. 
